---
title: "Global Patterns of Continental Uplift: Insights Inferred from Paleobiological Data"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/2019-12-11-AGU-pbdb
venue: "American Geophysical Union"
date: 2019-12-11
location: "San Francisco, USA"
---

[More information here](https://doi.org/10.1002/essoar.10501585.1)

Vertical motions of Earth’s surface are used to inform almost all branches of the Earth Sciences, and central role in understanding geological, biological and climatic processes. An important challenge is generating enough information to reliably constrain histories of vertical motion. Significant effort has been expended in generating information about denudation (e.g. from thermochronometry), uplift (e.g. from stable isotopes or drainage analyses) and subsidence patterns. However, a canonical inventory of measurements that determine continental uplift on timescales pertinent to growth and decay of continental topography does not exist. We address this issue using the distribution of unequivocally marine rock recorded in new, detailed, paleobiological inventories. We show that these new compilations of paleobiological and paleoenvironmental data, that were generated to address paleobiological problems, also provide an unprecedented number of self-consistent, high-resolution measurements of continental and ocean island uplift. We focus on the Cretaceous to Recent history, which captures the large-scale marine incursions of the continents. Our results highlight that significant improvements can be made in understanding the histories of the continents in using these measurements of uplift. We present examples from North and South America, southern Africa and Australia to show how this new database can be explored to better understand the processes that generate high topography. They emphasize the importance of large inventories of paleobiological data for understanding long-wavelength uplift and the role tectonic and mantle convective processes play in generating continental topography.
